# Udacity - Data Warehouse Project (Redshift)
ETL for Song Data

<hr/>

## How to install and get it up and running

Requirements:  Python (configparser, sql_queries, psycopg2)

1)  Create an IAM Role with AmazonS3FullAccess
2)  Create a Security Group with TCP and port 5439.
3)  Set up Redshift (4x dc2large) Cluster in AWS console with IAM Role and Security Group.  Jot down Cluster's password and user information.
4)  Create an IAM User with AmazonRedshiftFullAccess and AmazonS3ReadOnlyAccess
5)  Execute create_tables.py
6)  Execute etl.py

## Introduction
Taking two sets of JSON data (song and log), the scripts insert the data into 7 tables in Amazon Redshift.  The tables are logically set up as:  users, songs, artists, songplay, and time.  

## Architecture
The project workspace includes four files:
1) create_tables.py drops and creates tables. You run this file to reset tables before each time ETL scripts are ran.
2) etl.py reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into tables. 
3) sql_queries.py contains all sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.
4) README.md provides discussion on project.

## Dataset
CSong Dataset:
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. 

Log Dataset:
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

## Tables
Staging Tables:
stage_logs - Stages the data into redshift for the log files data
artist, auth, firstName, gender, iteminSession, lastName, length, level, location, method, page, registration, sessionID, song, status, ts, userAgent, userID

stage_songs - Stages the data into redshift for the song files data
num_songs, artist_id, artist_latitude, artist_longitude, artist_location, artist_name, song_id, title, duration, year

Fact Table:
songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

Dimension Tables:
users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude

time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday